In the mid 1970s, a black author wrote a
book that shook the foundation of our
country's conscience.
It was a book that later became a
minisseries on television, the most
watched minisseries in television
history.
Alex Haley's book Roots was the story of
his own family's search to discover its
past in Africa and link that to its time
in the old south caught in slavery.
People have speculated about why so many
people were attracted to this story. Why
did 130 million Americans tune in for
seven nights to watch Roots? Author
James Boyce says that many people
thought the popularity was due to the
fact that the series tackled the
difficult issue of race. But the author
Alex Haley disagreed with that. He said
the popularity of Roots was that it
helped a family find meaning in its past
and therefore direction for its future.
Understanding your past is the key to
understanding your purpose in the
present and your direction for the
future. You know, we have a word
secular. We talk about secular a lot.
The word secular is a word that means
literally to live within the bounds of
this age. A person who is secular is
someone who can only see the present. He
doesn't care about the past. He doesn't
have a clue about the future. He only le
lives in the present. Which explains why
so many people have a lack of purpose or
meaning in their life. What is true
physically and emotionally is true
spiritually.
Ladies and gentlemen, you will never
understand who you are, God's purpose
for you, God's future for you until you
understand your past. And that's why
today we're beginning a study of the
first 11 chapters of the book of Genesis
in a series I've entitled Retracing Your
Spiritual Roots. If you have your
Bibles, I want you to open to Genesis
chapter 1, beginning with verse one.
Now, in this first message today, I want
to do just three things. We have a few
minutes to do three things. First of
all, I'm going to give you some overview
material about the book of Genesis.
We're going to discover secondly the
outline of the book of Genesis, the
topics it covers, and then finally, I
want to share with you three reasons you
ought to care about the book of Genesis.
Let's first of all talk about the title
of the book. In the Hebrew Old
Testament, in Hebrew, the title of a
book in Hebrew would be the first word
of that book. And so in the beginning,
the first words in the book, in the
beginning is what the Hebrew Bible is
titled this book of Genesis. Our word
Genesis is a translation of a Greek word
that's found in chapter 2:4 that means
origin. Genesis means the beginning or
the origin.
Secondly, let's talk about the author.
The author of this book, it was believed
at least for 18800 years or longer, was
Moses. Moses was the supposed author of
the book of Genesis. We'll discover how
all of that changed beginning in the
1800s. But let me say the reason I'm
going to take a few minutes to talk
about this is to give you trust and
faith in the Bible that you have.
Because you may say, "Well, I don't care
who wrote the book, Moses or Schmoses.
It don't matter to me." Well, it needs
to matter to you because the attempt to
deny the Mosaic authorship of Genesis is
the beginning of denying the
truthfulness of the Bible. What evidence
is there that Moses was the one who
wrote not just Genesis but the first
five books of the Old Testament we call
the Pentatuk? Penta means five. Tucas
means scrolls. The five scrolls the Jews
saw these five books as one. Genesis,
Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and
Deuteronomy. And the Bible itself
declares that Moses is the author of the
pentetuk. We won't go through all these
verses, but Exodus 17:14, that's one
example. Then the Lord says to Moses,
"Write this in a book as a memorial and
recite it to Joshua." Or look in Numbers
33, the fourth book in the Bible. These
are the journeys of the sons of Israel
by which they came out of the land of
Egypt by their armies under the
leadership of Moses and Aaron. And Moses
recorded their starting places. One more
passage of many Deuteronomy 31:9. So
Moses wrote this law and gave it to the
priest. There are other verses, but you
get the point. Uh the book of the law,
the law itself, these first five books
claim Mosaic authorship. So did other
Old Testament books. They looked to
Moses as the author. Uh for example,
Joshua 1 7-8. We read just a moment ago.
God said to Joshua, "Only be strong and
be very courageous. Be careful to do
according to all the law which Moses my
servant commanded you." One final one. 2
Kings 14:6. But the sons of the slayers
did not put to death according to what
is written in the law of Moses.
The pentetuk itself claims Mosaic
authorship. Other Old Testament books
claim it. The greatest theologian in the
world, Jesus Christ also believed in the
Mosaic authorship of these first five
books. Let me give you a couple examples
of that. In Matthew 19, the Pharisees
were trying to trick Jesus, get him
involved in a common controversy of the
day over the subject of divorce and
remarage. And so they try to get Jesus
to take a stand and alienate half of the
Jewish audience by doing so. So they
say, Jesus, is it right for a person to
divorce his mate for any reason at all?
And Jesus goes back to the beginning to
show God's plan has always been one man
with one woman for life. That was his
plan. And he uses the literal Adam and
Eve as a basis for that. And then he
says in verses five and six, for this
reason, because God created them male
and female, one man with one woman for
life. For this reason, a man shall leave
his father and mother and cleave to his
wife, and the two shall be one flesh.
What did the Pharisees do? They said,
"Well, what about?" They got into what
aboutism. They said, "What about verse
eight, Moses and what he said? If God
said no divorce, why did Moses say under
circumstances you can divorce?" And
notice what verse 8 says. Jesus said to
them, "Because of your hardness of
heart, Moses permitted you to divorce
your wives." He's talking about a
quotation from Deuteronomy 4. And thus
said it was Moses that wrote that. But
from the beginning, that was God's plan.
Not God's plan. God's plan never
originally included divorce and
remarage. God's word allowed it because
of the hardness of people's hearts. And
so he linked what happened in the
beginning to what Moses said both in the
creation account and in this exception
clause. You say, "Well, that's pretty
flimsy evidence. Is there anything else
Jesus had to say?" Yes, there is. Glad
you asked. Remember in Luke 24 27 we
have the story of the two disciples of
Jesus on the road to Emmas. They had
just heard about the resurrection that
Sunday morning. They were going back
home from Jerusalem to Emmas. And as
they were walking along, a third man
appeared. They didn't recognize it was
Jesus at first, but the Bible says Jesus
began to explain to them all the things
of the Old Testament. And Luke 24:27
says, "Then beginning with Moses and
with all the prophets, Jesus explained
to them the things concerning himself in
the scriptures." Two things to note from
that. Moses is the author of the law.
You see, the Jews divided the Old
Testament into law, prophets, and the
writings. They say uh Jesus said it
began with Moses. He explained to all
the things concerning himself in the
scriptures. Moses was the author of the
law. And secondly, Jesus equated the
writings of Moses with scripture.
Scripture, the writings of Moses. One
more. Luke 24:44.
Then Jesus said to them, "These are my
words which I spoke to you while I was
still with you, that all the things that
were written about me in the law of
Moses." That's the penetuk. that's the
Torah and the prophets and psalms might
be fulfilled. This is not a small
consideration. Jesus claimed Moses was
the author of these first five books.
Now, if Moses is not the author,
then Jesus was mistaken. That's one
option. He didn't have a clue about who
wrote the first five books of the Old
Testament. Do you believe that? If you
don't believe that, then the only other
consideration could be, well, he knew it
wasn't true, but he said it anyway to
accommodate the error of the people of
his day. If he accommodated error by
speaking falsehood, then he's sinful.
He's a deceiver. He's either wrong or
he's a deceiver. The only other option
is he's telling the truth. He claimed
Mosaic authorship because in fact it was
written by Moses. Now I said for 1800
years and really longer than that when
you go back to the time before Christ
people accepted the Mosaic authorship
but that began to change in the uh 1700s
in the 1700s with a man named Julius
Wellhousen. He lived in the 1700s in the
18th century. Julius Wellhousen. He is
the founder of what we call higher
criticism.
Now, for the next few moments, some of
you are going to think, "Pastor, this is
something that should be taught in a
seminary class, but it doesn't mean a
rip to me. I don't care about higher
criticism. Why should I care about
higher criticism?" Because someday you
may hear or read about this, and it may
disturb you and cause you to doubt the
Bible. But I'll guarantee you, your
children and grandchildren, if they go
to school, if they go to college, even a
Christian college, they're going to hear
this and it's going to blow some of them
right out of their saddle when it comes
to their Christian faith. They're going
to start deconstructing and abandoning
the Christian faith. So, you better
listen to what I'm about to say to you
and understand this concept of higher
criticism. Higher criticism is an
attempt to try to understand what the
Bible is really saying. It's an attempt
to try to decipher what is really the
Bible and the word of God from what is
myth and legend. You see, the basic
theory of higher criticism is that any
piece of literature, including the
Bible, if it's around long enough, will
have certain things that corrupt its
meaning added to it. myth, tradition,
folklore, and so it gains layer upon
layer upon layer of falsehoods. And if
you're going to get to the original
meeting, you've got to peel away all the
superolous stuff that's been added to
it. Now, that sounds pretty good. We
want to take away all of the things that
aren't true. But who decides what's true
and not true? You know, if you start
peeling an onion, you can peel it and
peel it and peel it until there's
nothing left. The same thing is true
about the Bible. The higher critic says
you peel away
anything that's supernatural.
Anything that's supernatural cannot have
happened. You see, super means above.
Nature means nature, the world that we
see. Supernatural is anything beyond
nature. Anything that breaks the natural
laws. And so anything that's
supernatural cannot be a part of God's
word. And this is how it translates. For
example, Daniel could not have written
the book of Daniel. The higher critic
says. Why? Because Daniel lived hundreds
of years before the prophecies that he
made. How would he know the future? How
could somebody know the future? That's
impossible to know the future.
Therefore, Daniel didn't write Daniel.
It's somebody who lived much later. you
can't see the future. Or they'll take
the book of uh Exodus and the story of
Israel crossing the Red Sea. They say
that could not have happened. They would
have drowned if they had tried to cross
the Red Sea. No, the writer made an
error. It should be the reed sea that is
only a few inches deep, not the Red Sea.
And when it comes to the book of
Genesis, the higher critic says you
can't accept the creation account.
The idea of the world coming into being
in six 24-hour periods of time, that is
impossible. That is myth. Somebody just
borrowed the story from the Babylonian
creation and inserted it in Genesis. So
they say Moses could not have written
Genesis. And they say the things in
Genesis are not to be believed. So who
did write Genesis? The higher critic
would say it wasn't written in 1500 BC
when Moses lived. It was written more
like in 450 BC where four unknown
authors, we call them J, E, P, and D,
that they wrote the book of Genesis and
just meshed it together with Babylonian
mythology, Jewish folklore, and who
knows what else. And that's the book of
Genesis that we have. By the way, that's
what I was introduced uh to in my first
religion class in the college I
attended. I'll never forget the
professor standing up and the first
words out of his mouth were, "There is
no intelligent scholar today who
believes Moses wrote the first five
books of the Bible." And I raised my
hand and I said, "I beg to disagree,
sir." I read into somebody at the
airport just recently and they
introduced themselves. They said, "Do
you remember me?" And I said, "I'm
sorry, I don't." He said, 'Well, I was
in your religion class at such and such
university with you, and I sure remember
you because you were always arguing with
the professor.
When somebody says something stupid, I'm
going to argue about it. And it's a
stupid thing to say. No intelligent
scholar believes in the Mosaic
authorship of Genesis. There is plenty
of evidence for the Mosaic authorship of
Genesis. Let me just give you three
pieces of external evidence. First of
all, the history of writing. One of the
objections to Moses writing the book of
uh Genesis, people said in 1500 BC uh
writing had not
even been invented. 3,500 years ago when
Moses lived, writing had not been
developed. But archaeology has revealed
from tablets found in Egypt and
Mesopotamia that yes, writing was
invented as early as 7,000 BC. Or take
the uniqueness of the penetuk. Again, I
said the critic says, well, this was
just the Babylonian mythology that crept
into the book of Genesis. But William
Albbright, who is called the father of
modern archaeology, who's certainly not
an evangelical Christian, he disputed
that and has written that it's difficult
to see how this early mythological
structure can be connected in any way
with the biblical event. Do you know
what the Babylonian explanation is for
the beginning of the world? There were
these two dragons,
two dragons who gave birth to all the
deities in the world. And then one
dragon killed the other dragon. The
female dragon was slain and she was cut
in two and out of the top half of her
body all the heavens emerged and the
bottom half of her body all the earth
came and that's how we got the world
today. Does that sound like Genesis 1 to
you? No. It was polytheistic. It was
grounded in the belief of many gods. The
creation account is unique in all
literature of that time because it was
monotheistic believing in one God.
Thirdly, recent archaeological
discoveries. Charles Ryrie was a member
of our church, great theologian for so
many years. He's in heaven today. But he
noted in his writings that after World
War I, there were an increasing number
of archaeological discoveries that have
dis that have revealed that there were
practices in the second millennium BC
when Moses lived 1500 BC. There were
practices that had disappeared and were
not known in the first millennium, 450
BC, when these supposed unknown authors
of Genesis emerged. talking about things
like giving a double portion of an
estate to the oldest son, the validity
of oral wills, the sale of one's
birthright. Those were common in the
second millennium but BC but not in the
first millennium BC. So if it was
written by people in the first
millennium BC, how would they have known
about practices that were uh exclusive
to the second millennium BC? Without
belaboring the point, let me just say
the scriptural evidence, the external
evidence argues for the Mosaic
authorship. And this is just one example
of why you can trust the Bible. In 2
Timothy 3:16, Paul wrote, "For all
scripture, not just part of scripture,
not just the part that seems reasonable.
All scripture is inspired by God, and
it's profitable for reprove, for
teaching, for correction, for training
in righteousness." That word inspired,
you've heard us say many times, the
Greek word theos, God, nustas, breathed.
All scripture is God breathed. and you
can trust it. But when it comes to the
book of Genesis, inspiration is
certainly an issue, but it doesn't
answer all of our questions. You see,
there's a difference between inspiration
and interpretation.
And so, the real question is not just
can I trust these words, but what do
these words mean? Let me give you an
example of that. A few years ago, our
church decided to revisit the issue of
qualifications for deacons in our
church. And we knew where to turn in the
Bible to that. 1 Timothy chapter 3 lists
the qualifications for a deacon and a
pastor. One of those qualifications is
he must be the husband of one wife. Now,
we had a committee to study that. Nobody
disagreed with that was God's word and
instruction, the husband of one wife.
But the question was, what do those
words mean? For example, does husband of
one wife mean you can't be single and be
a deacon or a pastor? Does it mean you
can't be a polygamist and have multiple
wives? Does it mean you can't be
divorced and remarage? What do those
words mean? And the same thing comes to
pass when we're looking at the book of
Genesis. How are we to interpret the
book of Genesis? There are three ways
people go about interpreting the book of
Genesis. One is a very popular method
even among Christians. It's the
allegorical interpretation. It basically
says the people and events in Genesis
aren't necessarily historically true,
but they represent an important truth we
need to understand. For example, God
didn't literally create the world in six
24-hour periods. You can't take Genesis
1 and 2 literally. They're a fable that
uh illustrate God's hand in creation.
There was no literal Adam and no literal
Eve. They were simply a way to explain
entrance of evil into the world. You
can't take Genesis 6-9, the worldwide
flood, Noah and the ark. None of that is
literal. It is a fable about God's
judgment of sin. That's the allegorical
interpretation. These events aren't
necessarily historically true, but they
teach us a great truth. The problem,
there are a lot of problems with that
kind of interpretation, but one of the
problems is it contradicts how the Bible
treats these events. The Bible treats
these events as historical realities.
For example, turn to Psalm 136 beginning
with verse 5. The writer is talking
about the miracle of creation. To him
who made the heavens with skills, for
his loving kindness is everlasting. To
him who spread out the earth above the
waters, for his loving kindness is
everlasting. To him who made the great
lights, for his loving kindness is
everlasting. That's a reference to
creations. We'll see in a few weeks what
God did on each day. People will say,
"You can't take that literally. That's
just symbolic." But notice when he gets
to verse 10. To him who smoked the
Egyptians in their firstborn, for his
loving kindness is everlasting, and
brought Israel out from their midst, for
his loving kindness is everlasting. He's
talking about the Exodus here. He's
create he is equating the Exodus with
creation. The Jews believe the Exodus
was a real event, their deliverance from
Egypt.
And yet, if it's on par with the
creation, that's a myth. Then you have
to be fair and say, well then the Exodus
must be a myth as well. The linking of a
historical event with another event is a
proof that both events are taken as
historical. Let me give you one other
example. 1 Corinthians 15 20-22. Paul's
talking about the resurrection of Jesus
from the dead. But the fact is Christ
has been raised from the dead, the first
fruits of those who are asleep. For
since by a man death came, by a man came
the resurrection of the dead.
Who was the man by whom death came into
the world? What was his name? Adam.
Adam. Romans 5:12 says, "For through one
man, Adam, death came into the world,
and death spread to all men because all
sinned."
Death came into the world because of a
real man named Adam. For since by a man
Adam death came, by a man also the
resurrection of death. For as in Adam
all die, so in Christ all will be made
alive. Now, if Adam is just a myth, he's
a madeup character. How certain does
that make you that Christ was real and
the resurrection actually happened? Let
me change the word. For as in the Easter
Bunny, all die, so in Christ all will be
made alive. If the verse said that, how
certain would you be that you're going
to be raised from the dead one day if
it's just as probable as the Easter
Bunny? No. The Bible treats both of
these accounts as historical accounts.
Adam and the first sin and Christ and
the first resurrection. I remember uh
some years ago being with Bill O'Reilly,
the television commentator, and there
was this movie out about Noah, and Bill
was opining about his belief about Noah
and the ark. And he made the statement
that he got a lot of trouble for that.
He believed Noah was a myth, that the
story of the ark was a myth to
illustrate a great truth. But in
fairness, he had me on to give the other
side. And he said, 'Now, I believe in
the New Testament. I believe it's
historical, but I just don't believe the
Old Testament and Genesis can be taken
li literally. And I said, 'Well, Bill,
that's too bad because Jesus took it
literally. Remember, he said in Matthew
24:27, "As it was in the day of Noah,
so shall it be when the Son of Man comes
again."
I said, "Bill, what if Jesus said, "As
it was in the days of the Easter Bunny,
so shall it be when the Son of Man comes
again." Would that make you confident
that Jesus was coming back again? No.
Jesus placed the whole basis of his
belief in the second coming. It rested
on Noah being a historical character.
Ladies and gentlemen, just think about
this. The Bible links the resurrection
to a character in Genesis, Adam. The
Bible links the second coming of Christ
to a historical figure named Noah.
That's one reason we take these events
and people as literal people.
That's the allegorical interpretation.
Everything is a symbol of something
else. Secondly, there's a typological
interpretation.
Uh, a lot of conservative Christians
engage in that something is a
representation of something else. It may
be true. It probably is true, but it
represents something more important. For
example, Noah's ark that happened, but
it points to something more important.
The fact that Jesus is our ark. He's the
one through whom we find salvation. And
just as there was one door in the ark,
there is one way to Christ. We believe
that's true, but that's typological. Or
saying that Abraham offering Isaac as a
sacrifice, that was a picture of God the
father and God the son. Or we read the
story of Joseph, as we studied a few
years ago, that's a picture of Jesus
Christ. The problem in only seeing
things as a picture of something else is
sometimes you forget the importance of
the actual event that happened and the
person who happened. So you've got to
avoid the extremes there. And then the
third way to interpret Genesis,
and it's the way I think is most
accurate, is the normal interpretation
that sometimes people will try to trip
you up. They do me sometimes and said,
"Do you take the Bible literally?"
Do you believe the Bible is God's
literal word? I don't use the word
literal. And here's why. When Jesus said
in John 10:9, "I am the door," he wasn't
saying he's a piece of plywood with
metal hinges on himself. Obviously, you
can't take that literally, but you
understand what he was saying. The Bible
uses the language of appearance. He'll
say things are like, you find that a lot
in the book of Revelation. And we
understand when things are symbolic of
something else. We understand simileies
and metaphors. But here's a good rule of
interpretation. When the plain sense
makes good sense, seek no other sense.
When the plain sense makes good sense,
seek no other sense. And that leads to
an outline of the book. There really two
ways you can outline the book of
Genesis. There's a literary outline. I
put it on your outline. you don't have
to uh we don't have to talk about it
this morning but it's arranging the book
of Genesis around the word origin or
toadote in Hebrew. These are the
generations of and you see the 10 events
uh that that applies to in Genesis. But
I think a simpler way to do it is the
thematic outline of the book of Genesis.
It's divided into two parts. Genesis
1-11, which we're studying, is about
man's alienation from God. God created
man perfect, and yet because of sin, he
rebelled against God. And Genesis 1 to1
is the story of man moving further and
further and further away from God until
you get to the Tower of Babel. But then
Genesis 12 begins God's reconciliation
with man. Chapters 12- 50 are God's plan
to redeem man in spite of his sin. And
it all started with one man named
Abraham. God said to Abraham, "I'm going
to make you the father of a great
nation, and through you all the nations
of the world will be blessed." That's
the story of the rest of Genesis and the
rest of the Bible. Genesis 1-1,
man's alienation from God. Genesis 12
through Revelation 22 is God's
reconciliation
with man. Now, why are we studying the
book of Genesis? Let me close with three
key reasons to study the book of
Genesis. First of all, Genesis is the
key to understanding the Bible. You
know, we have a slogan for our church.
We say built on the Bible. This church
is not built on a denomination.
We really don't care what the Southern
Baptist Convention does because what
they do or don't do has no impact on us.
We're not built on a denomination. We're
not built on tradition. We're not built
on a political party. First Baptist
Dallas is built on the Bible. The Bible
never changes.
And it's a great slogan, but we need to
take it seriously. If we're going to be
built on the Bible, we better understand
the Bible. and know the Bible. And you
can't know the Bible without knowing the
book of Genesis. Did you know there are
200 illusions or quotations from Genesis
in all of the New Testament? And 100 of
those 200 quotations or illusions come
from Genesis 1-1. So it's the key to
understanding the Bible. By the way, you
can't understand Bible prophecy without
understanding Genesis. We always talk
about the Old Testament book of Daniel.
And Daniel is the Old Testament
counterpart to Revelation. And
Revelation quotes Daniel many times, but
it quotes the book of Genesis even more
than the book of Daniel. A second reason
for understanding Genesis, it's the key
to understanding our culture. It's the
key to understanding our culture. Did
you know the world, the secular world,
absolutely hates God? and they hate the
things of God. And that explains, by the
way, the emphasis on pushing the
absolute idiocy of evolution. We're
going to talk about evolution in the
days ahead. But, you know, people say,
"Well, evolution is science and
creationism is faith. You can't mix the
two." Evolution doesn't have anything to
say about God. Yes, evolution actually
has a lot to say about God, especially
in role of creation. Evolution says God
doesn't exist.
And if he did exist, he had absolutely
no role in creation. Everything we see
in this world, every person, every tree,
every animal, happened accidentally. It
happened by chance. People don't buy
that. Did you know a Gallup poll in 2024
showed that 71% of Americans believe God
played a role in creation? Many of those
believe he was the only agent of
creation. But 71% believe that God
played a role in creation. Only 22%
believe there is no God who had no role
in creation. And yet go to a school, go
to a college and you have evolution
pushed down your throat that this world
is by chance. Why are they so rabid in
doing that? Because if there is a
creator,
if we are created, if we are here not by
accident but by purpose, then it means
we have unaccountability to our creator.
And the unbeliever hates that. Genesis
is the key to understanding our culture
and why we are the way we are. And
finally, Genesis is the key to
understanding the purpose of God. You're
going to find five great themes in the
book of Genesis. First of all, the
doctrine of God. The 10 most profound
words in the universe are these. In the
beginning,
God created the heavens and the earth.
Those words take us back further in
history than Carl Sean could. They take
us back further than the most powerful
radio telescope. Those words tell us
that everything in this universe is here
by purpose. God is the one who is the
ultimate cause of everything in this
world. And he's the ultimate cause of
everything in your life right now.
That's the doctrine of God. We find also
the doctrine of man in the book of
Genesis. Contrary to popular thinking,
we did not emerge from being an amoeba
to a tadpole to a fish to a bird to a
gorilla. That's not how we came into
being. The Bible tells us that we were
created perfectly, instantaneously from
the dust of the ground. We were created
in the image of God. The Bible also
tells us in Genesis 1-11, the doctrine
of sin. Even though we were created in
the image of God, sin entered the world
and we rebelled against God to the point
that we hated God. Genesis 6:5 gives
this indictment about man. You know, we
talk about the goodness of man. How
everybody has a spark of divinity in
them. There's some good in every person.
That's not what God says. Here's Genesis
6:5, God's diagnosis of every human
being. Every intent of the thoughts of
our hearts are only evil continually.
Every intention of the thoughts of our
heart are only evil continually.
So much for the basic goodness of
mankind. Sin has corrupted all of us.
And that leads to the fourth theme in
the book of Genesis. The doctrine of
judgment. the doctrine of God's
judgment. People today don't want to
hear that God is a God who judges. They
hate that idea. I remember so well 30
years ago or so when Princess Diana died
in that automobile accident and the
world just became undone over it. And I
remember listening to talk radio back
then and people would call in trying to
make Princess Diana into a version of
Mother Teresa and the Virgin Mary. I
mean, she was the godliest woman who had
ever walked the face of the earth, you
would think. And then one person called
in, I heard, called in and said, "Well,
let me get this straight. Here's a woman
in a relationship
with a man not her husband, having
sexual immorality, committing sexual
immorality with him, choosing to get
into the car with a drunk driver. I
mean, could it just be that her
situation is the result of her own
choices? It's just the consequences of a
sinful life. Man, people went nuts at
that calling in, "How could you be so
insensitive? How could you say such a
thing?" People hate the idea that
there's divine judgment when we disobey
God. But that's the message of Genesis.
God said, "In the day that you sin, you
shall surely die." And because of our
sin, we are facing a judgment much more
fiery than an automobile crash. Because
of our sin, our natural rebellion
against God, we are sentenced to an
eternity of separation and hell. But the
story of Genesis doesn't end there.
Because in the book of Genesis, we also
find hope. And that's the doctrine of
justification through faith. God has
provided a way for us to escape his
judgment. Remember in Genesis chapter 3,
after Adam and Eve sinned, after they
felt such shame and guilt, they made a
covering of fig leaves to hide their
guilt.
God said, "That's not going to do it."
And he slew an animal. The first death
in the Bible was in sacrifice. And God
took the skin of that animal and he
placed it as a covering, an atonement
for Adam and Eve. So that when he saw
them, he no longer saw their sin. He saw
the lamb, the land, the animal that had
been killed. What a picture of what God
does for us. We cannot save ourselves.
But God has provided a lamb, the Lord
Jesus Christ, to be our sin covering. In
Genesis chapter 15:6, we see that
doctrine of justification through faith.
The Bible says, "And Abraham believed
God, and his faith was counted as
righteousness, as a covering." And Paul
picked up on that in Romans 4:5. He
quoted that verse. He said, "But to the
one who does not work, but believes in
him who justifies the ungodly, his faith
is counted as righteousness."
We need the righteousness of Jesus
Christ. And God has provided that
righteousness through his death on the
cross. Those are just five of the major
themes we're going to see unveiled in
Genesis 1-11.
My friend Max Leo has written,
"Every star is an announcement.
Every leaf is a reminder. The glaciers
are a megaphone. The clouds are a
banner. All of nature is a song with
many parts,
but one theme and one verse.
God
is.
God is.
And may I add, the God who is
is a God who loves you.
John 3:16 says, "For God so loved the
world that he gave his only begotten son
that whosoever believes in him will not
perish but will have eternal life."
That's the theme of the book of Genesis
that we'll be looking at in the weeks
ahead. Let's bow together in prayer.
God is he exists. He's real. But most
importantly, he loves you. He loves you
so much. He wants to have a relationship
with you. Well, there's only one way to
have a relationship with him. It's
through faith in his son and our savior
Jesus Christ. It's no accident you're
here today. God has you here for a
reason. It's no accident you tuned in to
this service. Today, God offers you the
chance to have your sins
taken away,
to experience God's forgiveness, to
become a child of God. Today, if you
would like to place your faith in Jesus
to be your savior, I want to encourage
you to pray this prayer in your heart as
I pray it out loud, knowing that God is
listening to you right now. Would you
pray this with me? Dear God, thank you
for loving me.
I know I have failed you in so many
ways. And I'm truly sorry for the sins
in my life,
but I believe what I've heard today
that you love me so much you sent your
son Jesus to die on the cross for me. To
take the punishment I deserve to take
for my sins.
And right now, I'm trusting in what
Jesus did for me.
not in my good works, but in what Jesus
did for me
to save me from my sins.
Thank you for forgiving me and help me
to live the rest of my life for you
in Jesus name. Amen.